BBQ Short-rib Sliders

2-3 jumbo shrimp per person for an appetizer, 3-4 for an entrée

Polenta (cakes ¾” thick)
5	cups water
1	cup yellow corn meal
12	to 18 Jumbo shrimp (10-12 per pound)
Pico de Gallo
4	tablespoons butter
2	garlic cloves, minced
1½	cups seeded, diced tomatoes
¼	cup diced red onion
1	tablespoon diced jalapenos
1	tablespoon minced garlic
Juice of 2 limes plus garnish
Salt and pepper

Shrimp: Shell and de-vein the jumbo shrimp. Melt butter in small saucepan, and then add minced garlic and stir. Spoon butter and garlic over shrimp making sure each shrimp is coated with butter, then broil for about 3 minutes until begining to brown. Turn shrimp once individually with wooden or metal tongs and then broil for another 3 minutes on the other side. Remove from broiler and sprinkle lightly with fresh ground pepper.
Polenta Cakes: Bring five cups of water to a rolling boil in a large sauce pan. Season heavily with salt. GRADUALLY add in the cornmeal and stir with a wooden spoon until well combined. Reduce heat to low and continue to cook until mixture thickens, stirring often.
While polenta is cooking spray a 9”x1” pyres dish with a small amount of cooking spray. Line the dish with saran wrap & set aside. Once the polenta has thickened about 30 minutes, check for seasoning and add salt if necessary, then pour the mixture into the saran wrap lined dish. Add another layer of saran wrap on top and smooth it down directly on top of the polenta. Place into the refrigerator for about 2 hours to set up. When you are ready to make the polenta cakes. Lift the polenta out of the dish, remove the saran wrap and place polenta onto a cutting board. Using a round cookie cutter or glass make 6 polenta circles “cakes”.
Pico de Gallo: Mix all ingredients in a large bowl and set aside.
Assembly:	Place a polenta cake in the center of each plate. Sprinkle pico de gallo on and around the polenta cake, then place 2 or three shrimp in a tent on top, then sprinkle additional pico de gallo on top before serving.

July 2012
