Beef Stew - Tyler's Ultimate

4 - 6 servings

¼	cup extra-virgin olive oil, for frying,	plus more to drizzle
3	tablespoons butter
2	cups all-purpose flour
2	to 3 pounds beef chuck shoulder roast, cut into 2-inch pieces
Sea salt and fresh black pepper
1	bottle good quality dry red wine
8	fresh thyme sprigs
6	garlic cloves, smashed
1	orange zest in 3 (1-inch) strips
¼	teaspoon ground cloves
2	bay leaves
2½	cups beef stock
9	small new potatoes, cut in half
½	pound carrots, peeled and sliced
2	cups frozen pearl onions
1	pound white mushrooms, cut in half
½	pound garden peas frozen or fresh
Fresh flat-leaf parsley, for garnish
Horseradish Sour Cream, for garnish

Preheat a large heavy-bottomed saucepan or Dutch oven over medium-high heat with the oil and butter.
While the pan is heating, arrange the flour on a large dish. Season the cubed beef with some salt and freshly ground black pepper and then toss in the flour to coat. Shake off the excess flour and add the beef chunks in a single layer to the hot pan, being careful not to over crowd the pan, you might have to work in batches. Thoroughly brown all of the cubes on all sides. Once all the meat has been browned remove it to a plate and reserve.
Add the wine to the pan and bring up to a simmer while you scrape the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon being sure to loosen up all those tasty bits. Once the wine has gotten hot add the browned meat, thyme, smashed garlic, orange zest strip, ground cloves, freshly ground black pepper and salt, to taste, bay leaves and beef stock. Bring the mixture up to a boil and then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook uncovered until the liquids start to thicken, about 15 to 20 minutes. Cover and cook on low heat for 2 1/2 hours.
After 2 hours add halved potatoes, sliced carrots, pearl onions and mushrooms, along with a pinch of sugar to balance out the acid from the red wine. Turn the heat up slightly and simmer, uncovered, for 30 minutes more, until the vegetables and meat are tender. Add the frozen peas during the last minute of cooking. Season with salt and pepper and remove the thyme sprigs.
To serve, place the stew in a soup bowl, garnish with parsley, drizzle with olive oil and add a dollop of Horseradish Sour Cream. Right before serving add a slice of Toasted Peasant Bread, half way submerged in the stew.

August 2010
