Bell Peppers Stuffed Serbian Style

6 servings

Tomato sauce
1	medium onion, finely chopped
1	tablespoon olive oil
2	cloves garlic, minced
1	can (28 ounces) chopped tomatoes
½	teaspoon each: ground coriander, salt
Beef and rice filling:
2	tablespoons olive oil
1	medium yellow onion, chopped
1	pound lean ground beef
½	cup finely chopped green pepper
¼	cup currants or chopped raisins
3	cloves garlic, finely chopped
1	generous cup warm cooked rice
¼	cup pine nuts or slivered almonds
1	tablespoon sweet paprika
½	teaspoon each: cinnamon, salt
¼	teaspoon allspice
¼	teaspoon, finely ground black pepper
2	tablespoons minced fresh dill
6	yellow or red sweet bell peppers
Fresh dill or parsley for garnish

For tomato sauce, cook onion in oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat until translucent, about 3 minutes. Add garlic; cook, 30 seconds. Stir in tomatoes, coriander and salt. Simmer, stirring often, about 20 minutes. Remove from heat.
Soak currants in port
For filling, heat oil in large nonstick skillet until hot. Add onion and ground meat. Cook and stir over medium heat, breaking meat up into small pieces, until browned, about 10 minutes. Stir in green pepper, garlic, and currants including the port; cook and stir, 5 minutes. Stir in rice, nuts, paprika, cinnamon, salt, allspice and pepper. Remove from heat. Stir in dill. Taste and adjust salt.
Heat oven to 350 degrees. Cut the top quarter off the peppers so you can remove the stem and core. Use your fingers or a small spoon to scrape out the seeds.
Pour about three-quarters of the tomato sauce into the bottom of a 13-by-9-inch baking dish. Use a spoon to stuff each pepper full to the brim with the meat filling. Stand the stuffed peppers upright in the sauce. (If using Anaheim peppers, you will have to lay them in the sauce.) When all the peppers are filled, spoon some of the remaining sauce over the top of each stuffed pepper.
Pour 1/2 cup water into the sauce in the bottom of the dish. Cover the dish tightly with foil. Bake until the peppers are tender when pierced with a knife, about 1 hour for the Anaheim peppers or 1 hour and 15 minutes for the bell peppers. Let cool a few minutes. Serve garnished with dill or parsley.

October 2017
