Carne Adovada

8-10 servings

3	ounces NewMexico chilies, torn into pieces
3	ounces guajillo chilies, torn into pieces
4	cups boiling water, plus 1 cup water
5	pounds boneless pork butt, cut into 1½-inch cubes
Kosher salt and ground black pepper
2	tablespoons lard or grapeseed oil
2	medium white onions, chopped
6	medium garlic cloves, minced
4	teaspoons cumin seed
4	teaspoons ground coriander
1	teaspoon dried oregano
¾	teaspoon cayenne pepper
1	tablespoon molasses
Lime wedges, to serve
Sour cream, to serve
Fresh cilantro leaves, to serve

Place the chilies in a large bowl, pour in the boiling water and stir. Let sit, stirring occasionally, until the chilies have softened, about 30 minutes. Transfer half of the mixture to a blender and blend until smooth, about 1 minute. Add the remaining chilies and water and blend until smooth, scraping down the blender as needed. Measure ½ cup of the chili puree into a small bowl, cover and refrigerate until needed.
Pour the remaining puree into a medium bowl and set aside; do not scrape out the blender jar. Pour ½ cup of the remaining water into the blender, cover tightly and shake to release all of the puree
Place the pork in a large bowl. Add 2 teaspoons salt and the chili-water mixture in the blender. Stir to coat, then cover and refrigerate for 1 hour..
Heat the oven to 325F with a rack in the lower-middle position. In a large Dutch oven over medium, heat the lard until shimmering. Add the onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 8 to 10 minutes. Stir in the garlic, cumin, coriander, oregano and cayenne, then cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in the remaining ½ cup water and the chili puree. Add the pork and any liquid in the bowl. Stir to combine, then cover the pot, place in the oven and cook for 2 hours. Remove the pot from the oven. Uncover, stir and return, uncovered, to the oven. Continue to cook until the pork is tender, another 1¼ to 1½ hours. Remove from the oven and set on the stove over medium heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the sauce has thickened slightly, 8 to 10 minutes. Stir in the reserved ½ cup chili puree and the molasses.
Taste and season with salt and pepper. Serve with lime wedges, sour cream and cilantro leaves.

November 2018
