Chili Con Carne

8-10 servings

3	Pounds beef chuck
Freshly ground black pepper
Sea salt
½ 	teaspoon ground cinnamon, plus 1 teaspoon
1	teaspoon ground cumin, plus 2 teaspoons
2	tablespoons chili powder, plus 2 tablespoons Masa harina (Mexican corn flour)
½	cup extra-virgin olive oil
¼	cup lard (Manteca)
4	red onions, peeled and minced
6	cloves garlic, minced
4	jalapeno peppers, sliced thin with seeds
¼	cup tomato paste
2	teaspoons dried oregano
2	to 3 bottles beer (12-ounce)
1	can (12-ounce) diced tomato in juices
1	quart chicken stock
3	cans black beans (12-ounce)
2	ounces bittersweet chocolate, cut into large chunks

Cut the chuck into ¾-inch pieces and place in a large bowl. Season liberally with pepper (about 20 turns of the pepper grinder) and salt to taste. Season with ½ teaspoon of the cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of the cumin, and 2 tablespoons of the chili powder. Mix this well and coat the meat with the masa harina (Mexican ground hominy flour). The flour will thicken the sauce and give it a distinctive Mexican taste.
Preheat a cast iron Dutch oven on the stove over medium high heat. Add the olive oil and then the coated meat, spreading it evenly so it covers the bottom of the Dutch oven in 1 layer. Leave it alone, without turning it, so the meat will brown and caramelize. Meanwhile, add the lard. The meat has a lot of moisture in it, so a good amount of steam will come from the pan before it is caramelized. As it browns, slowly turn each piece with tongs. Once all sides are caramelized, remove the meat from the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a cookie sheet to cool, leaving juices in the Dutch oven to sauté vegetables. Add the onions and garlic and sauté for 5 minutes over medium heat until they start to caramelize and get soft. Add the jalapenos and allow to cook for 2 more minutes until soft. Add the tomato paste. Add the remaining 2 teaspoons of the cumin, 1 teaspoon of the cinnamon, the oregano, and 2 heaping tablespoons of the chili powder. Add beer and stir to incorporate everything. Add diced tomatoes, and stir, then add the reserved meat. Add chicken stock. Simmer for 1½ hours until meat is wonderfully tender. Strain juice from the black beans, add the beans to the chili pot and bring up to simmer. Then add chunks of bittersweet chocolate. Stir until it melts. Serve immediately or store in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 days.

October 2006
