Corned Beef & Vegetables

6-8 servings (Requires 8 days to brine)

Brine Ingredients:
6	cups water
2	cups lager beer
1½	cups coarse kosher salt
1	cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1½	tablespoons Insta Cure No. 1 (optional)
¼	cup pickling spices
1	six to eight pound flat-cut beef brisket, trimmed
Corned beef and vegetables Ingredients:
1	twelve ounce bottle Guinness stout or porter
4	bay leaves
1	tablespoon coriander seeds
2	whole allspice
1	three-inch red hot chile) broken in half
12	three medium turnips or rutabagas peeled, quartered
8	unpeeled medium white or red-skinned potatoes
6	medium carrots, peeled
4	medium onions, peeled, halved through root ends
2	medium parsnips, peeled, cut into 2-inch lengths
1	two pound head of cabbage, quartered

Brine: Pour 6 cups water and beer into large deep roasting pan. Add coarse salt; stir until dissolved. Add sugar; stir until dissolved. If desired, stir in Insta Cure No. 1. Mix in pickling spices. Pierce brisket all over with tip of small sharp knife. Submerge brisket in liquid, then top with heavy platter to weigh down. Cover and refrigerate 4 days.
Remove brisket from brine. Stir liquid to blend. Return brisket to brine; top with heavy platter. Cover; refrigerate 4 days. Remove brisket from brine. Rinse with cold running water. do ahead Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap corned beef in plastic, cover with foil, and refrigerate.
Corned beef and vegetables: Place corned beef in very large wide pot. Add stout and enough water to cover by 1 inch. Wrap cheesecloth around bay leaves, coriander seeds, allspice, and chile, enclosing completely, and tie with kitchen string to secure. Add spice bag to pot with beef; bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer until beef is tender, about 2¼ hours. Transfer beef to large baking sheet.
Add turnips and all remaining vegetables to liquid in pot; bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium and boil gently until all vegetables are tender, about 25 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer vegetables to baking sheet with beef. Return beef to pot and re-warm 5 minutes. Discard spice bag.
Cut beef against grain into 1/4-inch thick slices. Arrange beef and vegetables on platter. Serve with Horseradish Cream and Guinness Mustard.

February 2008
