Pork Stir Fry with Bell Pepper, Onion, & Carrot

4 servings

½	pound boneless center-cut organic pork chops
2	organic green bell peppers
3	tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2	tablespoons soy sauce
1	tablespoon toasted Asian-style sesame oil
1	tablespoon cornstarch
1	tablespoon light brown sugar
2	teaspoons minced garlic
¼	teaspoon red pepper flakes
Splash white wine vinegar
1	medium-sized yellow onion, chopped
1	medium-sized organic carrot, cut into 1/4-inch dice

Preheat the oven to 500F.
With a sharp knife, trim excess fat or connective tissue from the pork chops and cut them crosswise into slices about ½ inch thick.
Halve, stem, seed, and devein the bell peppers. Cut half of 1 pepper into small dice. Cut the remaining pepper halves into 2 wedges each for a total of 6 wedges.
In a 10-to-12-inch ovenproof skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil over high heat. Add the 6 pepper wedges skin side down and season lightly with salt and pepper. Continue cooking, turning occasionally with tongs, until they have lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Turn all the wedges skin side up, transfer the pan to the oven, and cook until tender, about 7 to 10 minutes longer.
While the pepper wedges cook in the oven, put the soy sauce, sesame oil, cornstarch, sugar, garlic, pepper flakes, and vinegar in a medium-sized mixing bowl and stir until the cornstarch has dissolved completely. Add the pork slices and toss until the pork is thoroughly coated. Set aside.
When the pepper wedges are done, transfer them skin side down to a serving platter. Set aside.
Return the pan to high heat and add the remaining olive oil. When the oil is hot enough to swirl freely, add the pork mixture and stir-fry until lightly browned, about 3 minutes. Add the chopped bell pepper, onion, and carrot, season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue stir-frying until the pork is cooked through and the vegetables are slightly softened, about 3 to 5 minutes more.
Spoon the stir-fry over the pepper wedges and serve immediately.

April 2011
