Pork Shoulder - Roasted with Oranges

6 servings

1	boneless pork shoulder, 2½-pound trimmed
1	tablespoon plus ¾ teaspoon salt
1	tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
1	tablespoon red chili flakes
2	tablespoons honey
2	 onions, thinly sliced
½	cup peeled and thinly sliced ginger
3	bay leaves
5	oranges, cut into 5 slices each
2	cups freshly squeezed orange juice
2	cups water
¼	cup honey
¼	cup anise-flavored liquor, like Sambuca
2	quarts extra-virgin olive oil, for frying

Preheat the oven to 400F.
Season the pork with 1 tablespoon each of salt, black pepper and red chili flakes. Place the meat in a roasting pan with the onions, ginger and bay leaves and roast in the oven for 30 minutes, until the onions are soft. Add water to cover and roast 2½ hours, until the meat is very tender. Remove from the oven and set aside, keeping the meat in the braising liquid.
Reduce the oven's heat to 275F.
Meanwhile, lay the orange slices out in a single layer in a shallow casserole. In a large bowl, combine the orange juice, water, honey and sambuca and whisk to combine. Pour the mixture over the oranges, cover with plastic wrap, then aluminum foil and bake 2 hours. Uncover, increase the oven's heat to 375F and cook for 1 hour, until the tops of the oranges are caramelized. Reserve the liquid and set aside. Place the oranges on a clean sheet pan to cool. Place the pork braising liquid in a 12 to 14-inch sauté pan and cook over high heat until reduced by half. Add half of the orange cooking liquid, cook a few minutes and season with salt and pepper.
Portion the meat into 6 pieces and return to the braising liquid. Cook over medium heat until warmed through.
Meanwhile, in a tall-sided pot, heat the olive oil to 360F. Working 1 or 2 pieces at a time, pat the meat dry and deep-fry in the oil for 20 to 30 seconds, until crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon, let drain briefly on a paper towel then serve on warmed dinner plates with the sauce spooned over and the caramelized oranges on the side.

August 2006
