Pork Shoulder - Red Cooked (From Chinese Kitchen by Eileen Yin-Fei Lo)

10-12 servings

1	six pound pork shoulder, with skin on
1	cup plus 2 tablespoons regular dark soy sauce
4½	cups peanut oil for blanching (optional)
¾	cup sugar
3	pieces eight-star anise
2	three inch-long cinnamon sticks
4	scallions, trimmed and cut into thirds
2	one inch thick slices ginger, peeled
10	cups cold water
⅓	cup Shao-Hsing wine or dry sherry
1½	teaspoons red rice, pulverized into a powder

Preheat oven to 400F.
Wash the pork shoulder and with a small knife scrape the skin clean. Run cold water over it, rinse, and dry with paper towels. Rub the shoulder with 2 tablespoons of the soy sauce, covering it thoroughly and allow it to rest for 15 minutes. Place on a tray in the oven and sear for about 20 minutes.
Place a shallow rack at the bottom of a large pot and place the shoulder on it. Add the sugar, anise, cinnamon, scallions, ginger, and water. The liquid should cover the pork. Cover the pot and bring to a boil over medium heat. Raise the heat to high, add the remaining 1 cup soy sauce, the wine and powdered red rice, if using, and bring back to a boil. Lower the heat and allow the shoulder to simmer, leaving the lid cracked.
After 1 hour, turn the pork over and cook for another 1½ hours. Turn over again and cook for 1 more hour. Turn over again and cook for 1½ hours more. At this point the pork should appear about to fall from the bone. Taste the liquid – it should be sweet with a faint touch of saltiness. You may have to adjust seasonings a bit.
Turn off the heat. Allow the pork to rest in the pot until it cools to room temperature. Transfer the pork and liquid to a large bowl and allow to rest in the refrigerator overnight. It may, of course, be eaten warm, out of the pot, but it is far better eaten a day later, which allows its tastes to blend. To serve, heat the shoulder and liquid until hot. Transfer the pork and some liquid, now a sauce, to a deep serving dish. Serve with fork and spoon, for the meat will fall from its bone.
Note: “Surely one of the foremost classics of Shanghai. It is said that the dish is at least 300 years old, a dish for weddings and special birthdays, for the celebration of a son’s first month of life. It is also perhaps the best example of “red cooking,” for in most instances it is colored with dye. I prefer to color it with red rice, a food. Like many others of these classics, this preparation requires time, by the result is exceptional. Although the recipe will taste the same if you omit the powdered red rice, the color of the dish will not be authentic.”

January 2003
