Pork Tenderloin with Herbs & Capers

4 servings

1¾	pounds pork tenderloin
1	teaspoon kosher salt, more to taste
½	teaspoon ground black pepper
3	tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
4	shallots, minced
2½	tablespoons minced capers, plus a splash of their liquid
2½	teaspoons chopped sage
1½	teaspoons chopped rosemary
1½	teaspoons chopped thyme, more for serving
1	garlic clove, finely grated or minced
1	tablespoon dry white wine or vermouth
¼	cup freshly squeezed orange juice
¼	cup pork, chicken or other meat stock
1	to 2 tablespoons butter
Squeeze of fresh lemon juice (optional)

Heat oven to 375F. Slice pork tenderloin lengthwise to butterfly it, but don't quite slice all the way through: The 2 pieces should remain attached. Season with salt and pepper, then let sit while you prepare filling.
In a large, oven-safe skillet, heat 2 tablespoons oil over medium-high heat. Stir in shallots, ½ tablespoon capers, 2 teaspoons sage, 1 teaspoon rosemary, 1 teaspoon thyme and salt and pepper to taste. Stirring frequently, cook until shallots start to brown, about 5 minutes, then stir in garlic and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. (Adjust heat if necessary to prevent burning.) Transfer to a plate to cool slightly. Wipe out skillet and reserve.
Spread cooled filling evenly on pork, then close pork, along the hinge, like a book. Then fold the thinner end up against the thicker portion so that pork is the same width all over. Tie with kitchen twine at 1½ inch intervals.
In the same skillet, heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil over medium heat until oil is hot but not smoking. Place tenderloin seam-side up in the skillet, then transfer to oven and roast for 15 minutes. Flip pork over and continue roasting until meat reaches 140F to 145F in the center, about 10 minutes longer. Transfer meat to a cutting board to rest; reserve skillet and juices.
While the meat rests, make the sauce: Heat skillet over medium-high heat, then stir in vermouth and the remaining ½ teaspoon each sage, rosemary and thyme, scraping up the browned bits on bottom of pan. Cook until vermouth is almost evaporated, then add orange juice and stock, and cook over medium-high heat until thickened and syrupy. Whisk in remaining 2 tablespoons capers, their liquid and the butter; season with salt and pepper to taste. If the sauce tastes too sweet, add a squeeze of lemon juice.
To serve, slice pork into ½ inch-thick slices and top with sauce and fresh thyme.

April 2017
