Pork Loin – Roasted Tuscan Style

4 servings

1	boneless pork loin roast 2.5 pounds, (preferably with a fat cap)
2	ounces pancetta, diced
½	olive oil garlic, minced
¼	teaspoon red pepper flakes
1	teaspoon lemon zest and the lemon
1	tablespoon minced fresh rosemary
1	tablespoon kosher salt

Brine the pork loin in the refrigerator for 2 hours in two quarts of water, ¼ cup salt and ¼ cup sugar.
Place the olive oil, the minced garlic, the red pepper flakes, and the lemon zest in a cold 10-inch skillet over medium-low heat and simmer about 3 minutes, then add the dried rosemary and stir for another minute to warm. Pour this mixture into a strainer over a small bowl and press out the oil with a spatula and reserve for later use.
Put the pancetta in a food processor and process for about 30 seconds, and then add the lemon-garlic mixture and process for another 30 seconds until smooth and set aside in a small bowl.
Preheat the oven to 275F.
Using a boning knife, open up the pork loin lengthwise to make a slab about 1inch thick. Sprinkle the slab on both sides with the kosher salt, and then spread the lemon-garlic mixture evenly on the side opposite the fat cap with a spatula, leaving a ¼ inch on all sides.  Roll the pork loin slab up into an even roulade and tie with five pieces of 18-inch cooking twin. Place on a wire rack on a cookie sheet and refrigerate for an hour. Place in the oven with the fat cap on top and roast to an internal temperature of 135F; about 1.5 to2 hours. Remove from the oven and cover with aluminum foil to rest for about 20 iminutes.
Put about a teaspoon of the reserved oil in a non stick skillet and heat to just below smoking. Cut the zested lemon in half and put the two sides cut side down in the skillet for three or four minutes to carmelize. Remove to cool, and then put two tablespoons of the reserved olive oil in the skillet and heat to just below smoking. Dry off the roast with paper towels and place in the hot skillet to brown, about 4 6 minutes, turning to brown first on the fat cap side, then on the two sides, but not the bottom. Set out but do not cover. Prepare vinaigrette by squeezing the caramelized lemon halves over a strainer into the rest of the reserved oil, remove the twine ties, slice into ½ to ¾ inch slices and spoon over with vinaigrette.

November 2017
