Pork – Sichuan Stir-fried in Garlic Sauce

4 to 6 servings

Sauce Ingredients:
½	cup chicken broth
2	tablespoons sugar
2	tablespoons soy sauce
2	teaspoons black Chinese vinegar
1	tablespoon toasted sesame oil
1	tablespoon rice-wine vinegar
2	teaspoons catsup
2	teaspoons fis sauce
2	teaspoons corn starch
Pork Ingredients:
12	ounces bonless porik ribs
1	teaspoon baking soda
½	cold water
2	teaspoons rice wine or dry sherry
2	teaspoons corn starch
Stir-Fry Ingredients:
4	garlic cloves, minced
2	scallions, white sliced, green julienned
2	tablespoons chili paste
4	tablespoons vegetable oil
6	ounces shitake mushrooms sliced thin
2	celery ribs sliced ¼ inch on the bias

Sauce: Whisk all ingredients together in a bowl and set aside
Pork: Cut pork into 2-inch lengths, then cut each length into ¼-inch matchsticks. Combine pork with baking soda and water in a bowl. Let sit at room temperature for 15 minutes.
Rinse pork in cold water. Drain well and pat dry with paper towels. Whisk rice wine or sherry and cornstarch in a bowl. Add the pork and toss to coat.
Stir-fry: Combine the garlic, scallion whites, and chili paste in a bowl. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a wok over high heat until just smoking. Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring frequently, until tender, 2 to 4 minutes. Add the celery and continue to cook until the celery is crisp-tender, 2 to 4 minutes. Transfer vegetables to a separate bowl.
Add the remaining 3 tablespoons of the oil to the empty wok and place over medium-low heat. Add the garlic-scallion mixture and cook, stirring frequently until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Transfer 1 tablespoon of the garlic-scallion mixture to a small bowl and set aside. Add the pork to the wok and cook, stirring frequently until no longer pink, 3 to 5 minutes. Whisk the sauce mixture to re-combine and add to the wok. Increase heat to high and cook, stirring constantly until the sauce is thickened and the pork is cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes. Return vegetables to the wok and toss to combine. Transfer to serving dish, sprinkle with the scallion greens and reserved garlic-scallion oil and serve.

February 2012
