Pork & Red Chile Tamales

18 servings

Tamale Masa Dough:
3½	cups masa (corn tortilla mix)
3	tablespoons salt
3½	cups chicken broth, warmed
¾	pound lard
3	tablespoons red chile sauce (see separate recipe)
Ingredients:
1	boneless pork butt roast (3 pounds)
1	large head of garlic, cut in half
6	large Turkish bay leaves
1	teaspoon black peppercorns
1	teaspoon salt
1	eight-ounce package
dried corn husks
6	cups masa dough

For the Masa Dough: Whisk masa and salt in a large bowl. Add the red chile sauce, then gradually add 3 cups of the chicken broth, stirring until smooth dough forms. Beat lard in a mixer with the whisk attachment until very fluffy, scraping down the sides of the bowl often. Add masa in egg-sized lumps, beating until the dough is blended and fluffy. Beat in up to ½ cup more broth slowly if dough is too firm.
For the Tamales: Place the pork in a heavy large pot. Add both halves of the garlic head, bay leves, peppercorns, and salt, then enough cold water to cover by 2 inches. Bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat to medium-low, partially cover, and simmer gently until pork is very tender, skimming surface occasionally and turning the pork once, about 2 hours 10 minutes. Cool pork in broth 30 minutes. Refrigerate pork uncovered in borth in pot overnight.
Remove pork from broth and pull apart, trimming and discarding fat. Shred pork finely and place in a large bowl. Mix in 1½ cups red chile sauce and season filling with salt and pepper.
Place dried corn husks in a large pot. Add enough very hot water to cover. Let husks soak until soft and pliable, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Remove 1 husk from water; place on a work surface and remove any corn silk. Spread 6 tablespoons of the masa dough over the bottom third (wide end) of the husk, covering completely. Spoon 3 tablespoons of the pork filling in a strip down the center of the masa. Fold 1 long side of the husk over th filling, then roll up, forming a log that is open at both ends. Fold up the narrow end of the husk over the filled end to seal. Tear a narrow strip from another soaked corn husk. Slide the strip under the folded end and tie the tamale to secure, leaving the wide end open. Repeat to make about 18 tamales.
Stand tamales, open end up, in the steamer basket of a large pot. Pour water into the pot to come to the bottom of the basked. Cover pot; bring wter to boil over medium-high heat. Steam tamales until the dough is cooked through and separates easily from the husk, adding more water occasionally, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Let tamales rest in the steamer for 15 minutes. Tamales can be made 2 days ahead and chilled. Steam for 40 minutes to heat through before serving.

December 2007
