Pork Chops with Peck Seasoning & Charred Peppers

4 servings

¼	cup minced garlic
1	tablespoon roughly chopped lemon zest
½	cup coarsely chopped fresh sage
½	cup coarsely chopped fresh rosemary
½	cup very finely minced pancetta (about 3 ounces)
¾	cup kosher salt
1	tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
6	double-cut pork loin chops, about ¾ pound each
3	tablespoons olive oil
5	tablespoons Peck Seasoning
6	bell peppers in assorted colors, cored, seeded and cut into 1-inch-wide strips
Sea salt, preferably gray salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1	lemon, plus 6 lemon wedges for serving

Peck Seasoning: Combine the garlic and lemon zest on a cutting board and chop finely. Add the sage and rosemary and mince everything together until very fine. Add the pancetta and mix it in well with your fingers. Add the salt and pepper and gently incorporate all the ingredients by hand until the mixture resembles a moist seasoning salt. Transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate for up to 1 week or freeze for up to 3 months.
Prepare a charcoal or gas grill, or heat a large ridged grill pan, a griddle, or 2 cast-iron skillets over moderately high heat.
Brush the pork chops with 1 tablespoon of the oil, then season - sparingly - all over with the Peck Seasoning, patting it into place. Add the chops and reduce the heat to moderate. Brown the chops on both sides, about 4 minutes per side; slide the chops over to the indirect heat side of the grill, adjusting the heat so they cook without burning the coating. Continue to cook until the internal temperature reaches 140F, 25 to 30 minutes.
In a large bowl, toss the pepper strips with the remaining 1 tablespoon oil and salt and pepper to taste.
While the pork chops finish cooking over indirect heat, cook the peppers in a single layer on the grill over moderate, direct heat, turning them occasionally, until they are charred in spots and softened but not mu															shy, 8 to 10 minutes.
Transfer the pork and peppers to a warmed serving platter. Squeeze the lemon half over both and serve with the lemon wedges on the side.

August 2008
