Salami & Potato Pizza

4-6 servings

2½	cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
1	pound potatoes
2	ounces fresh brewer's yeast
Sea salt, for the paddle
1	cup fresh ricotta cheese (add olive oil if not spreadable)
1	tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
8	ounces salami, sliced thinly
Salt and freshly ground black pepper

In large pot, cover the potatoes with cold water. Add 1 tablespoon salt. Bring the water to a boil over high heat and cook the potatoes at a boil until they are tender, about 10 to 12 minutes. Drain well and let the potatoes cool slightly. When the potatoes are cool enough to handle, peel them and pass them through a potato ricer into a large puree in a large bowl. Dissolve the yeast in warm water according to the package directions. Add the flour and yeast to the bowl with the potatoes. Mix with hands to combine well.
Turn out onto a lightly floured work surface and continue kneading until you achieve a smooth dough. You may need to add some more water. Once the dough is well kneaded and smooth, place it in a large bowl, and cover with a damp kitchen towel. Place the bowl in a warm spot (turn the oven on at 300F for one minute, then turn off and put dough inside and close the door) and let proof 2 hours.
Preheat oven and baking tile to 475F.
After the dough has rested, use a sharp knife to cut the dough into 2 pieces, 1 slightly larger than the other. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll out into 2 rounds about 12-inches in diameter, again 1 slightly larger than the other. Coat the paddle with the sea salt. Place the larger dough round on the paddle spread with coarse sea salt.
Combine ricotta and oil in a small bowl. Using ⅔ of the ricotta, smear a layer of ricotta onto dough. Top with a layer of salami. Cover the pizza with the second portion of dough, using your finger to crimp seal the edges shut. Spread the remaining ricotta over the top of the second dough layer and score top. Season, to taste, with salt and pepper. Bake until golden brown, about 25 minutes.

June 2003
