Short Ribs- Red Wine Braised

4 servings

5	pounds meaty bone-in beef short ribs cut into 2-inch chunks
¼	cup olive oil, plus more for brushing
2½	tablespoons kosher salt, divided
1	tablespoon black pepper, divided
3	cups (3) chopped leeks, white & light green parts
3	cups chopped celery (5-6 ribs)
2	cups chopped (2) yellow onions
2	cups chopped (6) unpeeled carrots
1½	tablespoon minced garlic (5 cloves)
1	bottle dry red wine
4	cups unsalted beef stock
1	cup canned crushed tomatoes
1	bottle Guinness draught stout
6	sprigs fresh thyme, tied in a bundle

Preheat oven to 425F. Place short ribs on a sheet pan, brush tops with olive oil, and sprinkle with 1½ tablespoons salt and 1½ teaspoons pepper. Roast 20 minutes; remove from oven. Reduce temperature to 325F.
Meanwhile, heat ¼ cup olive oil in a large Dutch oven over medium heat. Add leeks, celery, onions and carrots; cook over medium to medium-high heat 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add garlic; cook 1 minute. Add wine, bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium and simmer 10 minutes, until liquid is reduced. Add beef stock, tomatoes, Guinness, thyme, 1 tablespoon salt and 1½ teaspoon pepper.
Add ribs to pot along with juices and seasonings from sheet pan. Bring to a boil, cover, and cook in oven 1 hour. Uncover and cook for 1 more hour, until meat is very tender.
Transfer short ribs to a plate with a slotted spoon; discard thyme bundle and any bones that have separated from meat. Simmer sauce on stove for 20 minutes. Skim some of fat off top and discard. Return the ribs to the pot along with juices and seasonings from the sheet pan. Bring to a boil, cover, and cook in oven 1 hour. Uncover and cook for 1 more hour, until meat is very tender; heat 5 minutes, and taste for seasonings. Serve hot in shallow bowls spooned over Creamy Blue Cheese Grits or polenta, with extra sauce on the side.. Mashed Potatoes or Polenta can be substituted for the  Grits.  Separate spreadsheet file contains a timing schedule for cooking the Short Ribs meal.

October 2018
