Focaccia with Roasted Tomatoes & Whipped Feta

6 to 12 toasts

Roasted Tomatoes:
2½	pounds tomatoes
5	garlic cloves, peeled
2	slices peeled ginger, about ⅛ inch thick
2	to 3 sprigs fresh basil
5	to 6 cups extra-virgin olive oil
Focaccia:
8	ounces feta cheese
6	tablespoons heavy cream
1	baguette
Zest of 1 grapefruit, plus 1 tablespoon juice
½	tablespoon tomato oil, from roasted tomatoes
1	garlic clove, finely chopped
2	cups wild arugula or torn chicory
½	cup torn parsley or mint
4	cups roasted tomatoes, roughly chopped
Salt and pepper to taste

Roast Tomatoes: Heat oven to 250F degrees. If using larger tomatoes, such as beefsteak or plum tomatoes, slice them in half; if using cherry tomatoes, leave them whole. Combine tomatoes, garlic, ginger and basil in a 9x13 inch baking dish. Add enough olive oil to cover. Transfer to oven and bake for 2 hours; the tomatoes should have started to collapse and have a few brown spots. Return them to the oven if necessary. Remove baking dish from oven and let tomatoes cool. Drain the oil and reserve. Remove baking dish from oven and let tomatoes cool. Drain the oil and reserve. Place the tomatoes cut side down on a cutting board and remove and discard the skins.
Focaccia: Press the feta for an hour: Take a stack of plates, wrap the feta in a dish towel, put it on the bottom plate, and put the rest of the stack on top of it.
Purée the pressed feta in a food processor until smooth. Combine the feta and heavy cream in a bowl and mix it by hand until it’s smooth and creamy. Refrigerate until ready to use.
Slice the baguette into ½ inch-thick pieces, six to twelve depending on size. Toast the pieces in the oven or toaster just until heated; crispy and warm, but no color. In a large bowl, place grapefruit juice, tomato oil, garlic, arugula and herbs; toss to combine. Add more oil and grapefruit juice if desired.
Spread the whipped feta on the toast, and then put down a layer of greens. Top with a layer of tomatoes. Season to taste with salt and pepper, sprinkle the grapefruit zest on top, and serve.

February 2016
