Wasabi Crab on Green Onion Pancakes

20 pieces

Wasabi Crab Ingredients:
12	ounces lump crabmeat
4	tablespoons wasabi mayonnaise
½	teaspoon lemon juice
½	teaspoon low-sodium soy sauce
1	teaspoon finely chopped fresh chives
Green Onion Pancake Ingredients:
4	flour tortillas
1	large egg, lightly beaten
2	tablespoons green onions, thinly sliced
2	tablespoons chopped chives (garnish)
2	tablespoons prepared wasabi (garnish)
Wasabi Mayonnaise Ingredients (Makes 1 cup of mayonnaise):
½	teaspoon sea salt
2	garlic cloves, minced
1	large egg
1	egg yolk
2	tablespoon wasabi powder
1	tablespoon fresh lemon juice
¾	cup vegetable oil
2	tablespoon olive oil

In a medium bowl, combine the crabmeat, wasabi mayonnaise, lemon juice, soy sauce, and chives. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour.
For the Green Onion Pancakes: Using a pastry brush, lightly coat 1 side of each tortilla with the beaten egg. Sprinkle each of 2 tortillas, egg sides facing up, with 1 tablespoon sliced green onions. Take remaining 2 tortillas, egg sides facing down, and place on top of green onion sprinkled tortillas. Press firmly together.
With a 2-inch round cutter (or empty tomato paste can with top and bottom removed), carefully cut 8 to 10 rounds from each tortilla sandwich. Place green onion pancakes in a dry, nonstick skillet over medium heat. Toast pancakes until golden brown on each side. Remove to a plate and set aside.
To serve, spoon a small amount of crab mixture on top of each pancake. Garnish with chopped chives or a very small amount of prepared wasabi.
For the Wasabi Mayonnaise: Pound the salt and garlic in a mortar with a pestle into a paste. Transfer to a food processor and add the egg, egg yolk, wasabi powder, and lemon juice. Process for 1 to 2 minutes, or until thoroughly mixed.
Combine the vegetable and olive oils. With the food processor running, slowly add the oil in a thin steady stream, processing until the mayonnaise thickens. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and process until thoroughly blended. Transfer to a glass jar with a lid and refrigerate. The mayonnaise is best within a few hours after it’s made, but it will keep in the refrigerator for a couple of days.

May 2007
