Apple Tart - French

8-10 servings

Pastry
1⅓	cups all purpose flour
5	tablespoons sugar
1	cup butter, melted
½	teaspoon salt
Apples
10 Golden Delicious apples
1 	cup sugar
3	tablespoons butter
½	cup apple preserves
1 tablespoon water

Preheat oven to 350F.
For the pastry, place the flour, salt, and sugar in a bowl. Add the melted butter and mix with a rubber spatula until it is evenly combined. Spread ⅔ of the dough into a 9-inch tart pan and press down with your fingers until it evenly covers the bottom of the pan. Press the rest of the dough around the inside edges of the tart pan. Bake in the oven for 30 minutes, rotating after the first 15 minutes until evenly browned.
For the apples, Peel the apples and cut them in half through the stem. Remove the stems and cores with a sharp knife and a melon baler. Slice 5 of the apples into 16 wedges each. Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in a 12-inch skillet and add the apple wedges and 1 tablespoon of water. Mix with a wooden spoon, cover and cook for 4 minutes, then put on a plate to cool.
Strain the apple preserves over a small bowl to separate the liquid from the solids. Set the liquid aside for later use as a glaze.
Melt the remaining two tablespoons of the butter in the skillet over medium heat, then add the other slices of the apples. Add ¼ teaspoon of salt and the rest of the apple preserves including the solids. Cover and cook for about 10 minutes until mushy, then mash them into a thick puree, about two cups. Smooth the apple puree evenly into the bottom of the baked crust.
Overlap the other slices of apple thick side up around the crust starting on the outside edge in a pattern until the pastry is covered with apple slices. Bake for 30 minutes in the 350F oven. Remove and brush the reserved liquid apple preserve over the apples and place under the broiler for a couple of minutes to make it golden brown, but not burned.
Remove from the tart pan and place on a serving dish. Cut into wedges and serve.

September 2015
