Apple Gingersnap Crumble with Bourbon Cream

10-12 servings

For the Filling:
½	cups dark brown sugar, plus more to taste
⅓	cup granulated sugar, plus more to taste
3	tablespoons cornstarch
2	teaspoons ground cinnamon
½	teaspoon ground ginger
½	teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
6	pounds apples, peeled & cut ¼ inch slices (about 12 large)
1	cup fresh or frozen cranberries
2	tablespoons lemon juice
2	tablespoons/29 cold unsalted butter, cubed
For the Bourbon Cream
2	cups cold heavy cream
1	to 2 tablespoons confectioners’ sugar
1	tablespoon bourbon
For the Topping:
2	cups all-purpose flour
1¼	cups/250 dark brown sugar
2½	teaspoons ground ginger
1	teaspoon ground cardamom
1	teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼	teaspoon ground cloves
½	teaspoon fine sea salt
½	teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
10 	tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2	tablespoon/20 milliliters molasses

Make the filling: Heat oven to 400F. In a large bowl, stir together brown and granulated sugars, cornstarch, cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg. Stir in apples and cranberries, sprinkle with lemon juice, and toss until combined. Taste mixture: An apple slice should be slightly sweeter than you’d like; the cranberries will seem like they need a little extra sugar. Add more sugar or lemon juice if needed.
Scrape apple mixture into a 9-by-13 inch baking dish or a shallow gratin dish, mounding them slightly in the center. (This will even out as it bakes.) Dot top with cold butter cubes. Place baking dish on a baking sheet to catch any bubbling juices that may spill over.
Bake for 25 minutes, stirring once halfway through, while you make the topping.
Make the topping: In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, brown sugar, ginger, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, salt and lemon zest. Add butter and molasses, and use your fingers to crumble the mixture together to form ½ inch crumbles.
After 25 minutes of baking, stir the apples and mound slightly again. Gently press down on them with a spoon or spatula. Scatter crumbles evenly on top of apples.
Bake until topping is crisp and filling bubbles up around the sides of the dish, an additional 30 to 35 minutes. If the top starts to look too dark before the juices are bubbling, loosely cover top of crumble with foil. Transfer to a rack and let cool for at least 30 minutes before serving. If you made it ahead of time, you can also reheat the crumble at 400F for 10 to 15 minutes.
Within an hour of serving, make the bourbon cream. Using an electric mixer or a whisk, beat together cream, confectioners’ sugar and bourbon until soft peaks form. Chill if not serving immediately. Serve with the apple crumble.

November 2017
