Coconut Shortbread Tartlets with Mango Curd Filling

72 tartlets

For the tartlets
1	cup plus 2 tablespoons butter
3	cups all-purpose flour
¾	cup powdered sugar
2	cups sweetened flaked coconut
½	teaspoon salt
3	large egg yolks
3	tablespoons ice water
1	teaspoon vanilla
For the mango curd
2	large ripe mangos, peeled & chunked
12	tablespoons butter
⅔	cup sugar
4	tablespoons fresh lime juice
2	tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Grated zest of 2 limes
6	large eggs
Garnish with whipped cream, 	fresh mango bits & mint leaves

Cut butter into small chunks. In the bowl of a food processor, pulse flour, powdered sugar and salt until well combined. Add coconut and pulse a few times. In a small bowl, whisk together yolks, ice water and vanilla until combined well. Add to flour mixture in food processor and pulse until incorporated. Form dough into a ball. Divide into two equal pieces. Form each piece into a ball and flatten into a disk. Wrap each disk of dough in plastic wrap. Refrigerate at least 1 hour or up to a week. When ready to bake, preheat oven to 400F.
Form one disk of dough into 36 equal sized balls, keeping remaining disk of dough wrapped and chilled. Press dough balls into bottom and up sides of 36 ungreased mini-muffin cups (measuring about 1¾ inches across the top and about 1 inch deep). Prick bottom of shortbread shells with a wooden pick. Chill for 15 minutes, or until firm. Bake in middle of preheated 400F oven for 10 to 12 minutes or until golden. Cool in cups on rack.
To make the mango curd, puree mango chunks in blender or food processor. You should have about a cup of puree. Set aside. Melt butter in heavy saucepan. Add sugar, lemon juice, lime juice and zest. Cook over moderate heat, stirring, until sugar is dissolved and mixture just comes to a simmer. Add pureed mango and bring to simmer.
In a bowl or 4-cup glass measure, whisk eggs together. Gradually whisk in hot mango mixture and blend well. Pour mixture back into saucepan and cook over moderate heat, whisking constantly, until it just begins to bubble. Pour mango curd through a fine mesh sieve into a bowl and cool slightly. Chill mango curd, its surface covered with plastic wrap, at least 2 hours, or until cold. Makes about 2½ cups of mango curd.
When ready to serve, fill each shortbread cup with mango chunks.

May 2015
