Dark Chocolate Soufflés with Cardamom Crème Anglaise

Eight ¾ cup soufflés

5	ounces bittersweet chocolate
1	tablespoon unsalted butter
¼	cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2	tablespoons all purpose flour
1	teaspoon unsweetened cocoa
¾	cup whole milk
¼	teaspoon vanilla extract
4	large egg yolks
5	large egg whites
¼	teaspoon coarse kosher salt.
Cardamom Crème Anglaise (2 cups):
2	 tablespoons whole green 		cardamom pods, crushed
1	cup half and half
1	cup whipping cream
½	cup sugar, divided
½	vanilla bean, split lengthwise
4	large egg yolks

Place chocolate and butter in medium bowl. Whisk ¼ cup sugar, flour, and cocoa powder in small bowl. Bring milk and vanilla to boil in heavy small saucepan. Gradually whisk hot milk mixture into sugar mixture to blend. Return mixture to same saucepan. Cook over medium-high heat until thick paste forms, stirring constantly, about 2 minutes. Scrape mixture into bowl with chocolate and butter; stir until chocolate is melted (mixture may look curdled). Add egg yolks and whisk until mixture looks shiny and creamy. (Soufflé base can be prepared 1 day ahead. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface and refrigerate. Bring soufflé base to room temperature before continuing.)
Butter eight ¾ cup soufflé dishes or custard cups; dust with sugar. Using electric mixer beat egg whites until frothy. With mixer running, gradually add 3 tablespoons sugar, then salt; beat just until soft peaks form. Fold ⅓ of the whites into soufflé base until well combined. Gently fold in remaining egg whites just to blend (some white streaks may remain). Divide batter among prepared dishes. Place dishes on rimmed baking sheet.
Preheat oven to 350F. Bake soufflés until puffed above rim of dish, tops are flat, and edges are set, about 20-25 minutes. Serve immediately with Cardamom Crème Anglaise.
Cardamom Crème Anglaise: Place cardamom pods with seeds in heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Stir until pods brown, about 5 minutes. Add half and half, cream, and ¼ cup sugar. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into pan; add bean. Bring mixture to boil. Whisk egg yolks and remaining ¼ cup sugar in medium bowl. Gradually whisk in hot milk mixture. Return mixture to same saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, stirring constantly, about 2 minutes (do not boil). Cover and chill until cold, about 3 hours. Strain into medium pitcher. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

January 2007
