Napoleon Grande

16-24 servings

4	sheets frozen puff pastry (2 packages)
18	egg yolks
1.5	cups sugar
6	cups whole milk
12	tablespoons flour
2	teaspoons vanilla
½	teaspoon salt

Thaw the frozen puff pastry. In a medium bowl, stir together 4 cups of the milk with flour, salt and whisk until smooth. Add the egg yolks and half of the sugar and whisk vigorously until mixture is smooth and pale lemon in color.
In a heavy bottom saucepan, heat remaining milk with the remaining sugar and the vanilla over medium heat. Heat until the milk just comes to a boil. While stirring the yolk mixture, slowly pour ¼ of the hot milk into the yolk mixture. This will temper the egg yolks so they don’t start to scramble. Immediately slowly pour the yolk mixture into the hot milk in the saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until the mixture comes to a boil and thickens. Remove from heat immediately. Cover with plastic wrap to prevent skin from forming. Cool completely and refrigerate for two hours.
Assembly: Preheat oven to 425F.
Roll all four sheets of the puff pastry to very thin rectangles measuring 12 x 16-inches.
Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and sprinkle with water. Lay two sheets of the puff pastry individually on the baking sheets and poke with fork all over to prevent over rising. Chill 15 minutes. Follow with two more sheets of the puff pastry. Trim pastry so edges of the rectangles are straight and even in shape. Bake until golden brown and very crisp. Cool completely on racks. And refrigerate until the two hours for the custard are up.
Evenly divide one third of the cooled custard onto the first sheet of puff pastry and spread evenly. Lay a second sheet and cover with pastry cream, lining up evenly. Follow with a second sheet and cover with another third of the pastry cream. Top with final sheet of puff pastry. Dust with icing sugar. Chill for at least 1 hour, then just before serving, drizzle with hot chocolate sauce.
To serve, cut aporozimately 2” x 4” rectangles with a serrated edge knife using sawing motion.

December 2014
