Napoleon Cake

6-8 servings

1	sheet of frozen puff pastry
5	egg yolks
6	tablespoons sugar
1½`cups whole milk
3	tablespoons flour
1	teaspoon vanilla
pinch of salt

Thaw the frozen puff pastry. In a medium bowl, stir together half of the milk with flour, salt and whisk until smooth. Add the egg yolks and half of the sugar and whisk vigorously until mixture is smooth and pale lemon in color.
In a heavy bottom saucepan, heat remaining milk with the remaining sugar and the vanilla over medium heat. Heat until the milk just comes to a boil. While stirring the yolk mixture, slowly pour ¼ of the hot milk into the yolk mixture. This will temper the egg yolks so they don’t start to scramble. Immediately slowly pour the yolk mixture into the hot milk in the saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until the mixture comes to a boil and thickens. Remove from heat immediately. Cover with plastic wrap to prevent skin from forming. Cool completely, the refrigerate for at least two hours.
While the pastry cream is cooling, preheat oven to 425F and prepare the pastry sheets.
Cut the sheet of puff pastry into thirds along the folds. Roll the three sheets of the puff pastry to very thin rectangles measuring 4 x 12-inches.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and sprinkle with water. Lay the three partial sheets of the puff pastry individually on the baking sheet and poke with fork all over to prevent over rising. Chill 15 minutes. Trim pastry so edges of the rectangles are straight and even in shape. Bake until golden brown and very crisp. Cool completely on racks, then return to refrigerator.
Evenly divide one half of the cooled pastry cream onto the first paretial sheet of puff pastry and spread evenly. Lay a second sheet and cover with pastry cream, lining up evenly. Follow with a second sheet and cover with the other half of the pastry cream. Top with final partial sheet of puff pastry. Dust with icing sugar and top with strawberry halves. Chill overnight, then just before serving.
To serve, cut approximate 1½	” x 4” rectangles with a serrated edge knife using sawing motion.

December 2014
