Orange Cake with Rosemary & Olive Oil

10 servings

For the Cake:
2	tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, for greasing the pan
2	cups all-purpose flour
¾	cup extra-virgin olive oil
½	cup plus 1 teaspoon powdered sugar
1	tablespoon orange zest
1½	tablespoons chopped rosemary
2	large eggs
½	cup sour cream
2	teaspoons baking powder
¼	teaspoon salt
For the Orange Icing:
1½	tablespoons orange juice
2½	teaspoons lemon juice
1¾	cups sifted powdered sugar
For the Crystallized Rosemary:
10	small rosemary sprigs
1	egg white, lightly whisked
2	teaspoons powdered sugar

At least 6 hours before you plan to ice the cake, prepare the crystallized rosemary: Brush rosemary on all sides with a little of the egg white and then dip it in powdered sugar, so the needles are lightly coated on all sides. Set aside on a wire rack to dry. Repeat with remaining rosemary.
Make the cake: Heat oven to 325F. Generously grease a 9-inch Bundt pan with half the butter and refrigerate for 10 minutes. Butter again, generously, and then flour it, tapping away the excess.
Put olive oil, powdered sugar, orange zest and chopped rosemary leaves in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Whisk on medium speed until combined, then add eggs, one at a time. Whisk for another minute, until thick, then add sour cream and mix until combined on low speed. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and the whisk.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together into a small bowl. Add the dry ingredients to the olive oil mixture and mix until combined. Increase speed to high and whisk for 1 minute.
Scrape batter into the Bundt pan and smooth the top with a small spatula. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until cake is cooked and a skewer inserted into the middle comes out clean. Remove from oven and let cool for 10 minutes before inverting onto a serving plate. (You may want to trim the cake at this stage, if it rises unevenly, to allow it to sit flat on the plate.)
Prepare the icing: In a small bowl, whisk together orange juice, lemon juice and confectioners’ sugar until smooth. When the cake has cooled, drizzle icing on top, allowing it to drip down the sides of the cake, then top with the crystallized rosemary and serve.

March 2017
