Orange Sponge Cake

8-10 pieces

7	large eggs, separated
1½	cups sugar
1	teaspoon pure orange extract
Freshly grated zest of one orange
¼	cup fresh orange juice
1½	cups sifted cake flour
¼	teaspoon salt
½	teaspoon cream tartar

Have ready a grease-free 10 by 4 inch tube pan with a removable bottom.
Place the egg yolks, 1 cup of the sugar, the orange extract, zest, orange juice, and flour in a large, wide bowl. Beat with an electric mixer on low speed for 1 minute, just to combine. Increase the speed to medium-high and beat for 4 to 5 minutes, until the yolks are very thick and pale and form a ribbon when the beaters are raised. Set aside.
In another large bowl, with clean beaters, beat the egg whites and salt with the mixer on medium-low speed until frothy, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the cream of tartar and beat only until the whites form soft peaks when the beaters are raised. Beat in the remaining ½ cup of sugar 2 tablespoons at a time, beating for 15 to 20 seconds after each addition. Increase the speed to medium and continue beating until the whites are thick like marshmallow cream and form peaks that curl just a bit at their tips.
Use a large wide rubber spatula to scoop the whites onto the yolk mixture. Fold together very gently only until no streaks of white show. Gently scrape the batter into the pan.
Adjust the rack into the lower third of the oven and place the pan in the oven, then turn on the oven to 350F. Bake for 45 to 50 minutes, until the cake is golden brown on top and springs back when pressed very gently. Immediately invert the pan onto a narrow-necked bottle. Let cool completely upside down, about 2 hours.
Loosen the sides of the cake from the pan with a narrow thin-bladed knife. Run the knife between the cake and the central tube. Lift the cake out of the pan by its tube and release the cake from the bottom of the pan with the knife. Carefully invert the cake onto a cake plate and lift off the pan. Cut portions with a serrated knife and serve with vanilla ice cream and some orange sections alongside each slice.

December 2002
