Orange Blossom Tart

10-12 servings

Crust Ingredients:
½	cup hazelnuts, toasted, cooled
1¼	cups all purpose flour
⅓	cup packed brown sugar
½	teaspoon salt
½	cup (1 stick) chilled butter, diced
3	tablespoons ice water
1	teaspoon vanilla extract
Oranges:
3	large seedless oranges, unpeeled
2 cups sugar
1¾	cups water
2	tablespoons light corn syrup
Filling:
1½	cups milk (not low-fat or nonfat)
2	large eggs
1	large egg yolk
3	tablespoons all purpose flour
1	tablespoon minced orange peel
1	teaspoon vanilla extract
Fresh mint sprigs for garnish

For Crust: Butter an 11-inch diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Finely grind the hazelnuts with the flour, sugar, and salt in a food processor. Add butter and process using pulse turns until mixture resembles course meal. Add water and vanilla; process until moist clumps form. Gather dough into a ball, flatten into disk, wrap in plastic; freeze until firm, about 15 minutes
Roll out dough on floured surface to a 14-inch round. Transfer to the prepared tart pan. Press the dough gently into pan and trim, leaving a ½ inch overhang. Fold the overhang in, forming double-thick sides. Freeze until firm, about 20 minutes. (Can be prepared well in advance and frozen.)
For Oranges: Using a serrated knife, cut ends from the oranges. Slice oranges into ⅛ inch thick rounds. Combine sugar, water, and corn syrup in a heavy large skillet. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Place orange slices in the syrup; simmer for 7 minutes until tender, occasionally pressing to submerge, about 8 minutes longer. Cool for 1 hour.
Line a baking sheet with waxed paper. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the orange slices onto the waxed paper, arranging in a single layer. Boil the syrup in the skillet until it is reduced to 1 cup, about 3 minutes. Cover oranges and syrup separately; chill until cold, about 3 hours.
Position rack in the lowest third of the oven and preheat to 400°F. Line crust with foil and fill with pie weights. Bake until sides are set, about 15 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 350F. Remove beans and foil; continue baking until brown, piercing with a toothpick if the crust bubbles, about 20 minutes. Cool.
For Filling: Place ¼ cup of milk in a heavy small saucepan. Sprinkle gelatin evenly over and let stand 10 minutes to soften. Stir over low heat until gelatin dissolves; set aside.
Whisk sugar, eggs, yolk, and flour in a medium bowl until blended. Bring 1¼ cups of milk to boil in a heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Gradually whisk hot milk into egg mixture. Return mixture to the same saucepan; stir until mixture boils and thickens, about 6 minutes. Remove from heat. Add orange peel, vanilla, and gelatin mixture, stir until blended. Chill until cool but not set. Spoon filling into the crust, spreading evenly. Cover and chill until filling is cold and set, at least 3 hours or overnight.
Cut orange slices in half; pat dry with paper towels. Arrange orange slices in overlapping circles on the filling. If orange syrup is very thick, warm briefly over low heat. Brush oranges with enough syrup to glaze. Garnish with mint if desired.

December 2001
