Orange Flavored Panna Cotta

6 Servings

2	Navel oranges
1½	teaspoon unflavored gelatin
2	tablespoon whole milk
¼	cup powdered sugar
⅛	teaspoon salt
1½	cup heavy cream
¼	cup granulated sugar
2½	teaspoons grated orange zest
¼	cup fresh orange juice
¾	cup buttermilk or sour cream
Chopped pistachios for garnish

Sprinkle the gelatin over the milk in a small bowl and let stand for 1 minute to soften. Whisk the powdered sugar and salt into 1 cup of the heavy cream.
Cook the granulated sugar in a dry small heavy saucepan over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Continue to cook, stirring occasionally with a fork, until sugar is melted into a golden caramel. Stir in 1½ teaspoons of the orange zest and cook, stirring, until the zest is toasted and fragrant, 30 seconds to 1 minute. Stir the cream mixture and carefully add to caramel (it will bubble and harden). Cook over moderately-low heat, stirring, until caramel is dissolved.
Stir in the gelatin mixture and remaining teaspoon of the orange zest until the gelatin is dissolved. Stir in the orange juice, then let stand just until cooled to room temperature. Pour through a fine sieve into a medium bowl.
Beat the remaining ½ cup of heavy cream with an electric mixer until it just holds soft peaks. Whisk the buttermilk (or sour cream) in another bowl until smooth. Fold the whipped cream into the buttermilk (or sour cream) then fold into caramel mixture until combined well. Whisk to remove any lumps. The mixture should be smooth.
Spoon into ramekins and chill until firm, at least 8 hours.
Dip the ramekins in hot water 2 or 3 seconds, until the panna cotta begins to melt slightly on the edges and run a thin knife around edge of the ramekins to help release the panna cotta. Invert onto dessert plates and let stand at room temperature 15-20 minutes.
While panna cotta is standing, remove peel and white pith from oranges with a sharp knife, and cut the sections free from membranes. Serve with about four orange sections on each panna cotta.

February 2007
