Peach Kuchen - Dakota

16 servings – 2 Kuchens

For the Dough
2	eggs, lightly beaten
½	cup milk
2½	cups all-purpose flour
1	tablespoon sugar
1½	 teaspoons baking powder
2	teaspoons instant yeast
½	teaspoon salt
¼	cup butter, melted
For the Peaches
12	ounces sliced fresh peaches
or canned or thawed frozen peaches
2	tablespoons sugar
For the Custard
1¼	cup whipping cream
¾	cup sugar
¼	teaspoon salt
1	whole egg + one egg yolk
4	tablespoons butter
½	teaspoon vanilla extract
½	teaspoon cinnamon

Grease and flour a 9x9x2-inch baking pan. Set aside.
In a small bowl, combine egg and milk and whisk together. In a mixer, mix flour, sugar, yeast, and salt. Add the egg mixture to the flour mixture slowly and mix until the dough begins to come together. Then add the butter and mix for about 10 minutes until dough forms. Place dough into a greased bowl, cover with plastic and let rise for an hour. Cut dough in half, wrap each half in plastic and chill in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. Meanwhile grease two 9-inch dark cake pans. Remove the dough from the refrigerator and roll each half into a 9-inch circle, and then place in the cake pans, pushing the dough out to the edges. Cover the cake pans with plastic and let rest for another hour to rise.
Mix the peaches with 2 tablespoons of sugar and let set in a colander for 30 minutes to remove any liquid. Meanwhile heat the whipping cream in a medium pan just to a boil and set off the heat. Whisk ¾ cup of sugar together with the whole egg plus the extra egg yolk, then slowly whisk the hot cream into the egg and sugar. Pour this mixture back into the pan and whisk while heating to thicken, about 4 minutes. Strain through a sieve to remove any lumps, and then stir in 4 tablespoons of butter followed by the vanilla extract. Cover the custard and refrigerate.
Remove the plastic from the dough and using a measuring cup, push a well in the center of the dough making an edge of about 1¼ inch wide. Arrange the peach slices inside the well, and then pour half of the custard over each kuchen and sprinkle with cinnamon.
Bake in a 350F oven for about 35 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center of cake comes out clean. Cool in pan on wire rack 20 minutes. Serve warm with ice cream.

June 2017
